# Migration Guide 0.11 ➝ 0.12

## Building

You will now need to set the kotlin compiler jvm target to `17`:
```kotlin title="build.gradle.kts"
tasks {
    withType<KotlinCompile> {
        kotlinOptions {
            jvmTarget = "17"
        }
    }
}
```

## BlockOptions

The `BlockOptions` constructor has changed. You will now need to set a list of `ToolCategories` and a `SoundGroup`
instead of individual sounds. Refer to [BlockOptions](../blocks/registering-blocks.md#blockoptions)
for more information.

## ItemBehavior

All configurable `ItemBehaviors` have been reworked to load their data from configs using the new `MaterialOptions`.  
In most cases, you'll no longer need to instantiate them, but rather just use their companion object in the `NovaItem`
constructor and configure them in the material-specific config file. Those properties can now be accessed in code using `<someItemBehavior>.options.<someProperty>`
instead of `<somItemBehavior>.<someProperty>`. Refer to [ItemBehaviors](../items/item-behaviors.md) for more information.

The `getLore` and `getName` methods have been replaced by `updatePacketItemData` which combines those two methods and
adds more options.

## Overlays

The `width` (BossBarOverlay, ActionBarOverlay) and `endY` (BossBarOverlay) were removed. You can still set them by
overwriting the `getWidth` and `getEndY` methods, but this is no longer mandatory.

## Misc

- Some NovaMaterialRegistry functions have been slightly changed to include the new `maxStackSize` parameter
- The `ToolUtils.damgeTool` functions have been moved to `DamageableUtils.damageItem`
- `SoundEffect` has been removed
- `ValueReloadable` has been replaced by `Provider`.
- General refactoring: You might need to change some imports regarding item (behaviors), tools, etc.