# Migration Guide 0.12 ➝ 0.13

## Initialization

With 0.13, we bring a new way to initialize your registries and other classes. Simple annotate a class with 
`#!kotlin @Init` and it will be loaded during the initialization phase.
We recommend annotating your registry classes with it. [More info](../misc.md#initialization)

## The end of `NovaMaterial`

We've decided to split `NovaMaterial` into `NovaItem` and `NovaBlock`. This allows for more flexibility, as you can now
have a block that is not an item. Currently, the `materials.json` file is still used to register items and blocks, but
this might be changed in the future.

All extension functions / properties and the like have be renamed as you'd expect, i.e. `ItemStack.novaMaterial` is now
`ItemStack.novaItem`, `Block.novaMaterial` is now `Block.novaBlock`, etc.  
Please let us know if we've missed anything.

### Related changes

* `NovaBlock` has been renamed to `BlockBehavior`
* The `vanillaMaterialProperties` and `attributeModifiers` fields in `ItemBehavior` have been changed to getter functions

## Registries

We've switched all "registry-like" classes to Minecraft's built-in `Registry` system. We've also added builders for `NovaItem`
and `NovaBlock` to make it easier to register them and to reduce future breaking changes when adding new properties.™

Therefore, we've also deprecated `NamespacedId` in favor of Mojang's `ResourceLocation`.

Check out the [registering items](../items/registering-items.md), [registering blocks](../blocks/registering-blocks.md) sections again.

### Related changes

* With the new registry system, all default entries are now in separate classes. If they're related to vanilla minecraft,
  the classes are prefixed with `Vanilla` (such as `VanillaToolCategories`, `VanillaToolTiers`, etc.). Nova's content is
  prefixed with `Default` (such as `DefaultGuiMaterials`, `DefaultGuiTextures`, `DefaultItems`, etc.).

## ItemStack data

We've changed how data is stored in `ItemStacks`. Previously, this used Bukkit's `PersistentDataContainer`, but we've 
changed this to use our custom `CBFCompoundTag`. Using `ItemStack.novaCompound`, you can now retrieve a `NamespacedCompound`
to store data in. This should generally improve performance, as we won't need to (de)serialize data every time it's accessed,
as the data is now cached in our new NBT tag type.

You can still use the `ItemStack.retrieveData` and `ItemStack.storeData` extension functions. They will automatically
move your data from the old `PersistentDataContainer` to the new `CBFCompoundTag`.

## TileEntity GUIs

We've reworked how TileEntity GUIs work. There is no longer a lazy `gui` property in `TileEntity`, instead the GUI class
is now retrieved using reflection and needs to be annotated with `#!kotlin @IndividualTileEntityGui` or `#!kotlin @GlobalTileEntityGui`.
This makes TileEntity GUI's more flexible as you now have the option to have one GUI instance per player.
[More Info](../blocks/tileentity/gui.md)

### Related changes

* If you've used the `VisualizeRegionItem`, you will now need to provide a `Player` for which the region should be visualized.
  This also requires you to use an `IndividualTileEntityGui` instead of a `GlobalTileEntityGui`.

## Tool Levels -> Tool Tiers

`ToolLevel` is now `ToolTier` and allows for better customization of tool tiers that have the same mining level.
[More info](../items/tools.md)

## Switch to kyori adventure api (chat components)

We've completely switched to kyori adventure components. Boss- and action bar overlays now use the `Component` class instead
of md_5's `Array<out BaseComponent>`. This also includes `CharSizes`, `MovedFonts`, `MoveCharacters`, `FontChar` and everything else.  
We've removed related utility functions for the bungee component api.

## Reworked BossBarOverlay

Boss bar overlays have been completely reworked. [More info](../overlays/bossbar.md)

## New Hitbox System

With Mojang adding interaction entities in 1.19.4, we've reworked our hitbox system to support them.
[More Info](../hitboxes.md)

## New MultiModel System

With Mojang adding display entities in 1.19.4, we've reworked our `Model` and `MultiModel` system to use those instead of
armor stands. This feature is not yet documented here, but you can use `MovableMultiModel` and `FixedMultiModel`
to deal with a larger amount of display entities that are supposed to display models from an item stack.

## Removal of default upgrade types

If you've previously used any of the upgrade types that came with Nova, these have been moved to the `simple_upgrades` addon.

```kotlin title="build.gradle.kts dependencies { }"
implementation("xyz.xenondevs:simple-upgrades:1.0-SNAPSHOT")
```

```kotlin title="build.gradle.kts addon { }"
depend.add("simple_upgrades") // (1)!
```

1. Create a hard dependency on the `simple_upgrades` addon!

The SimpleUpgrades addon also provides several top level functions for creating holders so that you won't have to change
much in your code.  
See: [UpgradeFunctions.kt](https://github.com/Nova-Addons/Simple-Upgrades/blob/760186647048af12ccd9c007f9bd07ae83118481/src/main/kotlin/xyz/xenondevs/simpleupgrades/UpgradeFunctions.kt)

## Removal of `nova-api` from transitive dependencies

We've seen that some people accidentally used classes from the `nova-api` module in their addons. This module is intended
for third party plugin developers and provides a very limited api. To avoid confusion and accidental imports of the wrong
class, we've removed `nova-api` from the transitive dependencies of the `nova` module.

This means that you can no longer instantiate the Plugin API events (it's really just one). Instead, we now offer the
`NovaEventFactory` class which provides methods to create and call those events, without the need of having the event class
in your compile time classpath.

Since `nova-api` is still in the runtime classpath, you can add the `nova-api` module back to your compile time dependencies
if you really want to, but we generally discourage this.

## InvUI 1.0

InvUI has been updated to `1.0`. This includes a lot of api-breaking changes, so please check out the [InvUI Docs](../../../../invui/).

## General Refactoring

* A lot of classes have been moved around or renamed.
* We've moved a lot of utility stuff to the `xenondevs-commons` project (specifically: providers, json utilities,
  collection utilities and some reflection utilities). This means that you might need to change some
  imports of extension functions and the like. Using IntelliJ's "Optimize Imports" feature should fix most of these issues.
* We've renamed all classes containing `GUI` to their proper upper camel case name `Gui`.
* A lot of classes and functions that should've been internal have been made internal. This probably won't affect you.