## Paper migration

Nova has migrated to Paper. This includes significant changes to the build environment, so check out the
[Nova-Addon-Template](https://github.com/xenondevs/Nova-Addon-Template) on GitHub for an up-to-date example.  
This also means that you'll no longer need to run BuildTools.  
It's also no longer possible to reload the server, even if you're in dev mode with `-DNovaDev`, but this didn't work
properly before anyway.

## Init annotation

The `#!kotlin @Init` annotation now requires a `stage` parameter. [More info](../misc/initialization.md#initialization-stages)

## Configs

Nova now uses a fork of [SpongePowered/Configurate](https://github.com/SpongePowered/Configurate), `configReloadable`
has been deprecated and nova items- and blocks now properly have a config associated with them.

```kotlin title="old"
val A: Long by configReloadble { NovaConfig[Items.EXAMPLE_ITEM].getLong("some.value") }
val B: Long by configReloadable { NovaConfig["namespace:name"].getLong("some.value") }
```

```kotlin title="new"
val A: Long by Items.EXAMPLE_ITEM.config.entry<Long>("some", "value")
val B: Long by Configs["namespace:name"].entry<Long>("some", "value")
```

[More Info](../configs.md)

## ItemBehavior

* `ItemBehavior` is now an interface.
* The same `ItemBehavior` instance can now be used for multiple `NovaItem`s.
* The `modifyItemBuilder` function has been deprecated in favor of a new `getDefaultCompound` function.
* Many default item behaviors such as `Damageable` are now also interfaces.
  This allows you to (for example) implement your own damaging logic (such as using energy).
* All item behavior `*Options` classes (such as `FoodOptions`, `ToolOptions`, etc.) have been removed as
  the properties have been moved to the new item behavior interfaces.
* `NovaItem#getBehavior` now asserts non-null by default. Added `NovaItem#getBehaviorOrNull` for nullable access.
* `ItemBehavior#handleInteract` now accepts `WrappedPlayerInteractEvent` instead of `PlayerInteractEvent`. This wrapping
   class has an additional parameter called `actionPerformed`, which is used to signal whether a custom action has been run.
   Additionally, `handleInteract` is now always called, even if an action (such as a tile-entity gui being opened) has
   already been performed.

[More Info](../items/item-behaviors.md)

### Utility functions

ItemBehavior-related utility function such as those in `DamageableUtils` have been moved to the companion object of 
their respective `ItemBehavior`.

## Packet Event Listeners

Packet Event listeners now need a `PacketListener` interface. [More Info](../misc/events.md#working-with-packet-events)

## Advancements

The advancement dsl builder has been removed. You can still register advancements via `AdvancementLoader`, but you'll
need to use Mojang's internal advancement builders. The built-in utility functions for creating advancements about
obtaining Nova items (`obtainNovaItemAdvancement`, `obtainNovaItemsAdvancement`) are still available.