## Minecraft version

Updated to Minecraft 1.21.1

## Asset index files removed

Nova no longer interprets asset index files such as `materials.json`.
Instead, everything is registered in code now.
This goes hand in hand with the new model builder system, which you can read more about [here](../blocks/creating-blocks.md).

## Items

### Data components

With Minecraft 1.20.5, data components have been introduced. You can now also specify these in `ItemBehaviors`.  
[More info](../items/item-behaviors.md)

### Enchantments

Since enchantment categories were dropped by Vanilla, Nova has also removed enchantment categories.
This means there are some changes to how the `Enchantable` behavior is configured.  
[More info](../items/enchantments.md)

Additionally, the `Enchantment` Nova class and all related utility functions have been removed, as it they are no longer needed.

### Nova Compound

The `novaCompound` of `ItemStacks` now needs to be written back to the `ItemStack` after modification.

## Block(states) / Tile-Entities

Nova blocks have been drastically changed. Block states now work similarly to Minecraft's block states.

See [Blocks](../blocks/creating-blocks.md) for more information.

Tile-entities have undergone major refactoring, many function for retrieving data have been renamed or (re)moved.
The functions that were kept in `TileEntity` are now prefixed with `stored...` instead of `get...`. Region-related
functions have been moved to the `Region` companion object. Side-config related functions have been removed.

See [Tile Entities](../tile-entity/introduction.md) for more information.

### Block Behaviors

A lot of block logic, such as breaking, sounds, drops, etc. has been moved into separate block behaviors.
See [Block Behaviors](../blocks/block-behaviors.md) for more information.

### Contexts

The existing block contexts have been replaced with a more flexible [Context](../contexts.md) system.

### Tile-Entity instantiation

Tile-entities are now instantiated off-main, possibly before Nova initialization is completed, and in possibly
unloaded chunks.  
[More info](../tile-entity/introduction.md)

### Tile-Entity networks

The tile-entity network system has been completely rewritten and now also has a
[documentation page](../tile-entity-networks/introduction.md).

### Upgrade system moved to Simple-Upgrades

The upgrade system has been completely moved to simple upgrades and is no longer a part of Nova.
You can still use it, but it will no longer be documented or referenced in the Nova docs.

## Providers

There were also some changes to `Providers`. You now need to call `get()` instead of `.value` to access the value.
Additionally, `Providers` are now lazy, meaning they only load or update their value when they are accessed.

## Initialization dispatcher

It is now possible to specify whether initialization tasks should be run `SYNC` or `ASYNC`, independently of the stage.
The previously existing stages `POST_WORLD_ASYNC` and `POST_PACK_ASYNC` have been removed.  
[More info](../misc/initialization.md)

## General refactoring

Apart from huge changes to blocks, tile-entities, etc. some packages have been moved as well.  
Most notable changes:

- `xyz.xenondevs.nova.tileentity` to `xyz.xenondevs.nova.world.block.tileentity`
- `xyz.xenondevs.nova.item` to `xyz.xenondevs.nova.world.item`
- `xyz.xenondevs.nova.player` to `xyz.xenondevs.nova.world.player`
- `xyz.xenondevs.nova.data.configs` to `xyz.xenondevs.nova.configs`
- `xyz.xenondevs.nova.data.serialization` to `xyz.xenondevs.nova.serialization`
- `xyz.xenondevs.nova.data.recipe` to `xyz.xenondevs.nova.recipe`
- `xyz.xenondevs.nova.data.resources` to `xyz.xenondevs.nova.resources`

## NMS-Utilities

The [NMS-Utilities](https://github.com/xenondevs/NMS-Utilities) library has been merged into Nova.

## Advancement utilities removed from docs

The few utility functions Nova still provides for interacting with nms advancement classes have been consciously removed
from the docs. Please use a third-party advancement library instead.