## Minecraft version

Updated to 1.21.9

## Updated build setup

Check out the updated [Nova-Addon-Template](https://github.com/xenondevs/Nova-Addon-Template) for the new build configuration. Most notably, Nova addons no longer use the `paperweight-userdev` plugin. This is due to the introduction of [access wideners](../access-widener.md) in Nova. The new `origami-gradle-plugin`, which replaces `paperweight-userdev`, is applied automatically by the `nova-gradle-plugin`. The plugin should automatically generate the access-widened server jar on IntelliJ's gradle sync. If this does not work for you (currently doesn't work for multi-module projects), you can manually run the `_oriInstallJar` (or `_oriInstall` to also generate sources) gradle task.

## ItemBehavior

Removed `handleReleased`, replaced with [item using api](../items/item-behaviors.md#item-using-holding-right-click).

## BlockBehavior

`handleRightClick` is now also called when the clicking player is sneaking. To keep the old behavior, you'll need to check for this yourself:
```kotlin 
if (ctx[DefaultContextParamTypes.SOURCE_PLAYER]?.isSneaking == true)
    return false
```

## GuiTexture

Gui textures should now be textures of the entire menu, including the player inventory, instead of just overlays. This is because gui textures for most menu types (`anvil`, `cartography_table`, `crafter`, `dispenser`, `grindstone`, `hopper`, and all generic chest-like menus) can now be transparent.

## ResourcePackBuilder

Resource pack building has been reworked. Pack task holders have been replaced with `PackBuildData` and `PackTask` interfaces. Nova can now also generate multiple resource packs. Refer to the updated [Custom Build Logic](../resourcepack/build-logic.md) page for more information.

## InvUI

Updated to InvUI v2.0.0-alpha.19. Check the [InvUI releases](https://github.com/NichtStudioCode/InvUI/releases/) for a changelog.

## commons-provider

Updated to commons-provider v2.0.0-alpha.7. Check the [commons-provider releases](https://github.com/xenondevs/commons-provider/releases) for a changelog. Most notably, `flatMap` was renamed to `immediateFlatMap` and `lazyFlatMap` was renamed to `flatMap`.