# 0.22 ➝ 0.23

## Contexts

Contexts have been completely reworked to make them more flexible and reusable.
Most notably, parameter types are now found on the intention object itself:

=== "0.22"
    ```kotlin 
    val ctx = Context.intention(DefaultContextIntentions.BlockPlace)
        .param(DefaultContextParamTypes.BLOCK_POS, pos)
        .param(DefaultContextParamTypes.BLOCK_TYPE_NOVA, Blocks.EXAMPLE_BLOCK)
        .build()
    ```

=== "0.23"
    ```kotlin 
    val ctx = Context.intention(BlockPlace)
        .param(BlockPlace.BLOCK_POS, pos)
        .param(BlockPlace.BLOCK_TYPE_NOVA, Blocks.EXAMPLE_BLOCK)
        .build()
    ```

For custom parameter types and intentions, check out the updated [contexts page](../contexts.md).

## Item- and block interactions

Item and block interactions no longer use `WrappedPlayerInteractEvent` (or any bukkit event). Interaction handling is now closer to vanilla behavior. This resolves several issues, like off-hand events only being fired sometimes. Interaction handling is now predictable and consistent. (Check out the flowcharts on the [item behavior page](../items/item-behaviors.md#item-use-right-click))

* In `ItemBehavior`, the methods `handleInteract` and `handleEntityInteract` were replaced with `use`, `useOnBlock`, and `useOnEntity`.
* Additionally, `modifyUseRemainder` was removed. Instead, `handleUseFinished` now returns an `ItemAction` (as used in `InteractionResult.Success`) that can be used to create the remaining item stack.
* In `BlockBehavior`, `handleInteract` was replaced with `use` and `useItemOn`.
Check out the updated [item behavior](../items/item-behaviors.md) and [block behavior](../blocks/block-behaviors.md) pages for a detailed overview of the new interaction system.
* Block behaviors are no longer called when right-clicking a block while sneaking. This aligns with vanilla behavior.

## Entity variants

- `WolfVariantBuilder`: Texture functions (`wild()`, `trame()`, etc.) are now grouped for adult and baby model under `adultTextures { }` and `babyTextures { }` blocks
- `CatVariantBuilder`, `CowVariantBuilder`, `ChickenVariantBuilder`, `PigVariantBuilder`: `texture` was renamed to `adulTexture` and `babyTexture` was added.
- `WolfSoundVariantBuilder`: Like for the textures, sounds are now grouped under `adultSounds { ... }` and `babySounds { ... }` blocks. Unlike textures, baby sounds default to adult sounds. `stepSound()` is now available.

## Notable dependency updates

_The following dependencies were updated and include breaking changes:_

* Minecraft: Updated from `1.21.11` to `26.1.1`
    * [Minecraft wiki](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Java_Edition_26.1)
* InvUI: Updated from `2.0.0-alpha.26` to `2.0.0-RC.2`
    * [InvUI changelogs](https://github.com/NichtStudioCode/InvUI/releases)
* commons-provider: Updated from `2.0.0-alpha.8` to `2.0.0-alpha.10`
    * [commons-provider changelogs](https://github.com/xenondevs/commons-provider/releases)